---
layout: post
title: Reality
date:   2016-03-1
categories: blog
---
Hello, and welcome back to my blog.

You may have noticed that this is not being posted on the regular date, and you would be correct; this isn't being posted on the regular date, and that speaks to something.

I'm a high-school student. I like to think of myself as a "good" high-school student. But, for the past few weeks, I have not been living up to that title.

School has generally been on the, how should I put this, *easier* side for me. Often times I can achieve the grades I desire with little to no studying. If I procrastinate, I can often do the work in a rush, thus doing it at a lower standard than I would like to admit, but still obtain an acceptable grade.

This is a problem.

If it's not a problem now, it's going to become a problem very soon. I can already see it happening. The very fact that this post is being written late alludes to it being a problem. The reason why I did not write this post on the normal day was an honest mistake; I simply forgot. It happens. But, the main reason for the lapse of my memory was due to the overwhelming amount of other work I had to do. Are my teachers evil for giving me all this work? No, of course not. In fact, most of it was assigned over multiple days, giving me the chance to work on it over time.

A chance I regrettably did not take.

And now, I'm being hit by the consequences of this action at full force. *But*, there's still hope for me yet. I write this after a session of research for another class; one of the things I've most been dreading. And you know what? It wasn't as bad as I thought it was going to be. Boring, yes, but horrible? No, not really. I guess things are starting to look up for me already. I guess writing about your concerns really does help, doesn't it?

But, will I be able to recover? *Hopefully*. There are no certainties in life. Maybe I will, maybe I won't, only time will tell. I do believe in myself, and as William Ernest Henley [famously said][poem]: "I am the master of my fate, I am the captain of my soul."

Cheers,
-Joseph Camacho-Roy

[poem]: http://www.poetryfoundation.org/poem/182194
